Do you want the no BS advice that the
top 1% of PBC pros actually follow? I
can guarantee you that is not what you
see on LinkedIn. All these secret hacks
and comments to get post on LinkedIn all
preach overly complicated setups or just
absolute BS. This video I'm breaking
down the eight no BS principles that the
top 1% follow to get sustainable
long-term results. Make sure you stick
around for the last one. It's the piece
of advice that most agencies are afraid
to tell their clients and it could be
the single biggest reason why your
account is stuck today and has nothing
to do with you.
Note, I'm skipping all the basic basics
because nobody needs to hear another
video of somebody saying that you need
optimal tracking or why smart bidding
beats manual bidding. Here's number one.
Don't over complicate unless it drives
an impact. Here's the truth. If a
baseline Google ad structure does not
work, then your complicated structure
will most likely not work either. This
doesn't mean a more complex setup that
speaks to an individual account or
business can't perform better than what
a simple setup can. But what it does
mean that if, for example, if phrase and
exact match doesn't work for you, then
adding broad match doesn't fix your poor
spending account. or if you're only
spending $10,000 per month on a PMAX
campaign, then switching to standard
shopping or splitting your PMAX
campaigns into 18 different accounts
will not 5x your ad spend. The truth is
that if you do the basics right, you
should be able to get 60 to 80% of the
results that your business allows you to
get. Now, for small businesses, paying
for that last 20 to 40% can be a bad
investment because agencies and
freelancers, we cost a lot of money. But
larger advertisers pay for those last 20
to 40% is really what can make a huge
difference in growing year-over-year or
not. And you pay us to get the basics
right. Here's what I mean when I call
out a basic setup and versus a complex
setup. Here's one setup where you can
see that it's been split up into exact
match and broad match and naming
convention makes very very little sense.
These are category IDs which just is
really really hard to work with and it's
just really difficult to figure out what
it is. If we then go into the shopping
uh side of it, we had 19 different
campaigns where it split up into looked
like some of them were in high and then
the same thing was in standard. So it
just seems to just be split up a bunch
without any any direct purpose with it.
Now if we then go back over to let's
just uh take the last 30 days and we can
see fewer campaigns basic setup we have
a bestseller campaign where we push the
bestselling products a main campaign of
cyber choice put into something else.
Then we have a couple other campaign
types that in my opinion are they're
only to appease the client in this case.
I don't think they're super necessary to
have to push. the third party doesn't
really cause an issue here because
they're afraid of margins and I've told
them like a thousand times I'm not
worried about it because the third party
like we're we're doing profit tracking
so it's not really a thing. Just keeping
it nice and simple often can do a lot
better than trying to over complicate
it. Like I say in my agency, it'll get
complicated soon enough and it means
that the complexity will always come. If
you start out building a complicated
setup, then suddenly you need to account
returns, different margins for different
products or the client specific wishes
like an example I just showed. So every
setup should have a feeling of being
this is a little bit too simple. Not
overly simple, but just on the verge of
I could tweak this. And that's where you
stop. The reason why I we always preach
simple is because of the second thing
help the automation. We know that
granularity can kill automation. And
granularity is a direct byproduct of
over complicating campaigns. Everyone
who've worked with PBC back when it was
manual uh bidding knows this. The more
you split up the campaigns, the more you
split up the b the data. And the more
you split up the data, the longer it
takes to use the data and the longer it
takes to actually figure out how to make
a real impact on an account. This is
what we mean by granularity can kill
automation because automation works
based on all the same things that we
used to do when we split up campaigns
manually. So the more you split up your
campaigns today, the harder it is for
the smart bidding and all the other
automation to actually take action or be
confident in what a bid should be, what
should the best ad line ad headlines be
in your responsive search ads, what
should the right product be for the
right search terms, etc., etc., etc. So
don't split up your campaigns too much.
Now when I say granularity, I really
mean this whole thing with products
split across many different campaigns.
If we go back to the to what I had
before, you can see that here we have a
very strategic structure with we have a
bestseller campaign, we have a main
campaign, we have push campaign where we
need to feed more traffic into
categories or new products that we don't
really get enough out of or hasn't
gotten a chance to work yet. That's the
underlying functionality. That's how
we've set it up. And when we then look
at, okay, what happened last year, if
you look at it, there's just there's
just no meaning to the madness. It's
been split up in an attempt to just
split it up. They wanted to have
individual categories and individual
campaigns. And this particular
advertiser came to us and afterwards
when I had created our structure and
said, well, aren't we worried that this
category, this category or this
category, they should have different POS
targets? When we did the analysis of it,
there were no issues whatsoever. Here's
another example where we see keywords
all over the place where we have some
phrase match and some broad match. And
this is another key thing. The more you
use broad match, especially if you break
it up into different campaigns or
different ad groups, then you start
seeing the same search terms appear
several different places. Everything
that I do is an attempt to help the
automation work better, which means I
can work less. And the core part here is
to segment and consolidate for smart
bidding and the overall system to work
better. It's one of the core things that
work in today's Google ads is
consolidating, consolidating,
consolidating to make sure that the
system for smart bidding, response to
search ads, etc. to know what should it
do when. And all this feeds into the
third principle, learn how smart bidding
works. When I talk to the top 1% of
PPCers out there, they know how the
Google Ads auction works and they know
how smart bidding navigates it. A lot of
people have have an advantage here is
that we work with manual bidding. So, we
know the auction and we know what smart
bidding does. But in order to for you to
take have a takeaway here. So, the
essentials of the auction and smart
bidding goes back to the scurve
principle. Meaning that you get
exponentially more by bidding just a tad
bit more or you can get almost nothing
out of bidding a lot more. It's the law
of diminishing returns. You can see it
in the graphic. You can see there is a
sweet spot where just by bidding a
slight bit higher, we get monumentally
more clicks. And it has to do with the
fact that there are limited ad spots. So
if the second you get out of the top
four, top five product ads, then you
miss out on a ton of traffic. So
figuring out what should the right row
be is super important. The second thing
is that you pay what the advertiser
below you is betting. That means that if
you try to push very hard to be number
one, number one and number two can
actually have a double the the CPC as
what people below you are doing. So
figuring out again what is the sweet
spot from a profitability standpoint
from a traffic standpoint is really
important. And that's why when you just
set up an account and just let it run
the same targets forever, it's a really
bad thing. There's another part of this.
CBC is a horrible benchmark to see what
smart bidding is actually doing. It's
one of the things that really the way we
all think about it is that bidding
doesn't it really just doesn't work like
it used to where we would bid lower for
a keyword and then it would influence
everything. So we can see here again
this is just if we lower a bid for a
keyword then everything the search query
the device the audience the location
would all go down with the same amount.
However that's not the case with smart
bidding. Smart bidding can you can drop
you out of the auction on unprofitable
segments and keep CPCs high on the high
performing segments. This isn't good.
This isn't bad. It's just what it is.
And it means that you can't truly depend
on many of the metrics that we used to
look at when we look at what is smart
being doing. And again, CBC is one of
the worst things you can look at when
you whether you figure out is my bidding
changes working or not. Now the third
thing that you really need to understand
when it comes to smart bidding is that
projected row is your core KPI to
understand what it's doing. Have you
ever sat and looked at your smart
bidding and gone like why is it
increasing our bids right now or why is
it decreasing bids? Why is it not
spending less etc etc. And the fact is
the smart bidding knows that all your
conversions from yesterday has not come
in yet. This is what we call conversion
lag. And the way that you can find that
uh when you work with smart bidding is
you go into the bidding report or smart
bidding report and you look at this. You
can see what the actual ROAS is. This is
what the ROS is that with all the
traffic that's come in. But if you hover
over it and you can hover over the the
actual ROS or conversion value by cost
in your entire account and you can see
what is it predicting or what is it
thinking will come in further. So in
this case we have an average target ROS
for the last uh for the last month where
it is set to 661%. Our actual ROS is 68.
So in theory it should be decreasing the
bids. However, it is predicting that
with the conversion lag, we're going to
end up at 677% ROS, which is basically
higher than what the average target RO
has spent been the last 30 days. So, it
should technically continue to bid up or
it should definitely not decrease the
bidding. All these things just go back
into this thing where we talk about how
does smart bidding work. And if you want
to be the top 1% of PBC, then you need
to figure out how to work with smart
bidding. You need to be able to explain
smart bidding to clients because if you
can't explain how smart bidding works,
then you have very little value in the
ecosystem. The fourth principle is to
focus on the right KPIs. It doesn't
matter if your Google ad account is
doing great in your eyes. You need to
know the business KPIs to make sure
everything is good. I've seen two
examples of this in the last couple of
months. Number one was profit tracking
where we've saw that the inaccount
metrics were amazing. the specialist on
the account from the agency kept pushing
for spending more and more and more.
There seemed to be a constant disconnect
between the PPC manager and the
e-commerce manager and the owner. The
owner were binging every single month
that the invoice came in. They were
like, "Why are we not making any more
money?" In the end, the e-commerce
manager went into profit metrics and
added fixed expenses and the PB guy
could immediately see that he wasn't
profitable enough every single month. So
if we take a look in this account, you
can see like where last year they were
saying, "Hey, we have a PO of 1785. It's
doing great." This was obviously
horrible month, but like 237 27. We're
we're killing it. We're doing amazing
and you we actually need to spend more
because we are under spending what we're
supposed to do. Then when they came out
and saw like, hey, we're we're not
profitable at all when we look at our
business, when we look at our P&L at the
end of the year, we are not profitable.
And then they went in and then this was
alongside an effort to do better pricing
so they made sure they had the right
prices and could actually convert
better. They also said we need to have a
higher profit and that's where they
actually went in here like now we start
targeting above three for the entire
year of 2020 2025 and it's just made
everything a lot more powerful obviously
and that's the thing you need to focus
on what makes sense for the client what
makes sense for your business and not
just say well two is great. We have
businesses where a POS of 1.3 is
amazing. That's what we go after. And we
have businesses where we need to hit a
three. Once we start being four, I start
pushing back quite a bit. When I push
back, I go back and say, "Okay, let's
measure the net profit. Let's look at
how much is our net profit at 255. What
is it at three? What is it at 1.08?" I
can most likely say that 108 is
horrible, but look at the business
metrics. And the second example is that
this applies the other way around. I've
seen accounts with way too high rows and
so their account was choked and not able
to scale. This often happens in cases
where nobody has realized that over the
last three years we've seen monumental
changes to tracking. We've seen cookie
consent. We've seen data modeling. We've
seen enhanced conversions. We've seen
server side tracking. And in some
accounts, this means that what used to
correlate to a healthy business KPI just
doesn't correlate anymore. and
readjusting to what a good ROS is in
Google ads should look like and
correlate it to business KPI is what's
most important. So focus on the right
KPIs. Figure out what is the right KPI
Google ads. How does that match the
business KPIs in the end? The fifth
principle is skip best practices when it
calls for it. I tell a lot of people
what to do via the audits, our courses
or internal training. And I also ask
every single person at my agency to
actively ignore what I say or our best
practices when they know better. A
recent example was a client that I had
told that PMAC should not be part of the
plan at all. However, after 5 months, we
saw a pretty big distinction between
countries with a lot of data and
countries with very little data. So, I
said, hm, let's try to use PMAX. So,
that way we consolidate and aggregate
more of the shopping and the search data
into a single campaign and see if that
consolidation can help fuel better
performance. It's way too early to say
if it was a good idea or not, but it was
clear that the granular setup that we've
created that we created originally for
our high spending countries just didn't
work out for the small countries. So, we
needed to try something else. The sixth
uh principle is big picture
optimizations over hacks. Over the
years, there's been a lot of hacks that
have come and gone. Think stuff like
adding emojis to ads or this little
tweak here and then or jumping on this
beta way too soon. I've probably jumped
on the back bandwagon one out of 10
times and whenever I discuss hacks with
other people in industry, they all say
the same thing. We don't pay attention
to that. The best case scenario is that
you get a temporary boost in performance
which then drops all of a sudden when
you're not allowed to use emojis in your
ads anymore, which can be costly for
smart bidding because smart bing now
have a complete different performance to
actually predict bas. might be fine if
you have a small account, but if you're
spending $100,000 a day, if you're
spending $50,000 a day, if you're
spending $10,000 a day even, then the
loss that you take afterwards usually is
much more costly. And the fact you can't
predict your business performance and
your marketing performance is something
that can kill an e-commerce business.
Instead, focus on getting the big
picture optimizations right create more
stability in your account so that you
can gain long-term performance gains.
All these little hacks doesn't really
work. The seventh principle is that
off-platform optimizations is half the
work. So I wanted to share three
examples before I jumped into too many
things. We saw the example that I shared
before where working on the prices had a
huge impact on performance. If we go in
and we take a look at that campaign
again during Q1, we're just seeing a
conversion rate of 3.34 33. So it's
consistently above three comparing to
last year 1 one.32 etc etc significantly
higher. So that's also what drove this
p. However, if the account had had the
same row of course targets as last year
then this would have just potentially
been a lower p. So again what I said
before still stands. However this is
where they just went in and started
doing better pricing on the campaigns.
So in this case December went up by a
ton where you can see po was pretty bad.
That was mainly because they were they
had pushed prices way too low. So now
they had no margin left and now we're
starting to see prices be more
sustainable to where they want to be.
This means conversion rates goes up,
margins are even better because we're
still tracking POS. We're not bidding as
aggressively. So our CPCs are lower and
that's what's driving an offplatform
optimization more or less drove the
entire conversion rate increase. Then
it's about it's your job to capture it
correctly when it gets in to Google Ads.
And here's another example where we look
at member pricing where we can see that
we the client that we took over here
actually had a pretty good custom label
setup. We can see what was the normal
price, what's the outlet price, what is
something on sale, and then what is a
member price. This is something that's
not that usually done in the US, but
it's pretty big in Europe. Have these
membership sites where you get a lower
price if you're a member. And for many
of these people, it's or advertising is
a way to get around the pretty strict
laws that are around when a product can
be on be said to be on a promotion or
not. If you have it as a member price,
so you have to be a member to get this
price, you can basically show a lower
price compared to what everybody else is
getting. It's another way to show before
and after prices in Europe. So in this
case, we're looking at it and we're
going like, hm, why does a member price,
which is by all means, it is the same as
a sale price, when we look at it, why is
the ROS so bad on it, why is the
conversion rate basically lower than
what normal pricing is? And this is an
industry where having something on sale
or be price competitive is super
important. So, in this case, we're
looking at it and the reason was
actually because when you land from a
product ad and it says member price, it
doesn't say how you get the member
price. It doesn't say that it's free to
become a member. Doesn't say that it
that there's no strings attached. It
doesn't say anything about that. It just
shows the member price. So, nobody
believed them when they said that they
could get this for 20 30 40% lower than
what the before price was. So, again,
offplatform optimization. The third
thing I wanted to mention here is this
this row versus AOV. We have a client
where we've gone back and forth on
should they run as many promotions as
they're doing because every single time
that they run a promotion, our margins
go down and then when we do profit
tracking, we're already so low on our
POS target that we almost can't compete.
And we we started seeing a pretty
significant trend where whenever the AOV
went up, then the POS also went up. And
when the AOV went down, the POS also
went down. And we went like that. And it
meant that smart bidding simply just
just didn't know what to do. So when it
with the AOV going up, then it could
say, "Hey, now I can bid high." And it
will continue bidding high into the
following week when the AOV was getting
lower again. and then it would decrease
the bids and then the following week the
AOB would go up because the promotion
for that particular product would go
away etc etc. So there was just no
consistency. So what we've pitched here
a lot is to let's let's not run as many
promotions because it didn't have the
impact that they were hoping for
anyways. All of these things is because
when I talk to you as a PBC specialist
who manages accounts it's your primary
job to be able to take full advantage of
the what the performance ceiling of a
business is. So, if a business can reach
a million dollars a year in in revenue,
that that's your job to take it to a
million. Once you reach that limit, once
you reach that million, it's also your
job to figure out ways to raise the
ceiling. And here were three examples
where we're saying, okay, let's stop
doing promotions in the way that we've
doing them before. Here is a way, hey,
if we tweak the product page for our
membership prices, then we can actually
maybe we can drive that revenue up and
get that 30% increase from there. Or
let's try to work on the prices. We can
we saw that example before where we just
got way higher 3x the conversion rate by
working on the prices. It doesn't all
have to be broad match. It doesn't all
have to be a PMX versus standard
shopping conversation. This is what
clients are looking for. This is what
your boss is looking for. They're
looking for ways to improve the
business. And if you can come and say,
"Hey, we can do this off platform thing.
It will help me take better advantage of
Google Ads." Don't say it'll just make
Google Ads do better. You still have to
take advantage for it of it. You still
have to not overspend. Still have to do
all the basics, right? But you being
able to push that means you're also a
more valuable asset for your company or
for your client. Now, the last one, the
last principle I wanted to talk about is
a direct opposite of what I just said
before. It's the principle that if a
keyword that matches your ad that
matches your product page doesn't work,
then you need to run away. Another angle
on this is that when we sometimes very
often when I take on clients and savvy,
especially in the early days, I would
have seen a downward trend. I used to
think I can fix it. I can just run exact
match. I can do this with smart bidding.
I can do this account better. But it's
like I was the girl who was attracted to
bad boys. We find minute mistakes in in
in the boy or in this case in the
account setup and I and we think we can
be the ones to fix them fix the or fix
the downwards trajectory in the account.
You can't if the basics don't
fundamentally work. If somebody is
searching for the product that this
business is selling and you show that
product in the ad and you don't say this
is a free product, if you just show that
product in the ad and it goes to the
product page, if that doesn't work, then
it's a fully an offplatform thing, then
it's the business that doesn't work,
then it's the product that doesn't work,
it's the conversion rate that doesn't
work, it's the pricing that doesn't
work, and thinking that you can come in
and fix that, unless it's a part of your
service, part of your responsibility to
go in and take over that business. But
if you're only working on the Google ad
side and you think you can fix it
without fixing the prices, fixing the
inventory, fixes the products, fixing
the product pages, then you are
mistaken. So those were the eight
principles. The first seven ones really
give you something to work with. The
eighth one is really just a learning
from me personally. Don't let your
self-esteem go down just because you
took on the wrong client. If you're into
practical PPC insights that you can
actually help you, then subscribe. I
share tips, breakdowns, and call out
what's working and what's not. No fluff,
just the stuff that you can use every
single week.